# Java script

We use java script to interact with the webpage. JavaScipt is a interperted compiled programming language with first-class  functions which mean functions in the language are treated like any other variable. Although it is known for scripting language for Web pages, many non-browser enviorments also use it, such as Node.js, Apache CouchDB, and Abobe Acrboat. JavaScript is a sytle of approching programming in *objects* (data expressed within a set of properties) and the object itself is operated in which classes(object's properties and methods) are not explicitly defined, but rather derived by add properties and method to instance of another class or less frequenly, adding them to an empty object.

Java is also single threaed which means it offers ways to create additional thread, and they are able operate independently from each other.

JS is dynamic which means the interpreter assigns variable a type at runtime based on the variable's value at the time.

It suppots object-oriented, and imperatine and declarative styles.

## Intro to JS

There are two systems of JS

- what the client see is client-side system

- what the programmer see is called server-side system

JS can be catorgorized into 3 parts

- The language itself. The is fairly standardamong various enviorment.

_ The DOM API- how the language can interact with the various parts of a wed page while in the browser. While in this respect the various browsers are getting closer to each other they still differ. 

- The server API provided by Node.js or one of ther other server-side systems

## Syntax

Every line except  brackets that look like this ,`{}`, must end with a semicolon `;`.

There are tags in HTML to code it in one file

`<script language="javascript"></script>`
 
 To link your code to HTML if using a different file for JS type:

 `<script src="app.js"></script>`


Js code uses the document.write function to change the content of the page.

- document.write(insert string variable) will print what ever the user types in a promt input.

Example below:

`alert("Hi welcome to Coffee Plaza!!!");
let favoriteCoffee = prompt("What is your favorite type of coffee?");
document.write(favoriteCoffee)`

Console.log helps developers debug code. It is an additional window which is normally not visible, where the browser can print out warnings and errors generated by the execution of the JavaScript code. (E.g. if there is a syntax error in the code.) In order to see the console you'll need to open it.

**The developer can also print information to this console using the console.log() call.**



The you do that is command --> option --> J

## Two ways to receive input

- Promt will show a pop-up window with the text provided as the first parameter and with a tetbox ther user can fill in

- Confirm is the other pop-up is not really an input method. It allow the developer


## Variables

 -let ---> can be changed

 -const ---> constant, can not be changed

Examples:

`let favoriteCoffee = prompt("What is your favorite type of coffee?");`


### Data types

- Bolean means the code is trying to tell if something is true or false

- "==" lets you tell if it what is printed is true
- "===" means something has to stricly equal what is. So number have to stricly equal to integers.
  
- Strings are words wrapped in quotes

- Number/Intergers are just whole numbers

- Loops

[Lecture and passcode: #*LrviZNA2](https://zoom.us/rec/share/pp_nMudiPTesaimENLBYA9xItfIzthwAZJU8GKtCPez55sK8-i99T4BfolIdcE44.wdz-qTe81HGW_FKU)

[Back to home page](../README.md)